[Jesus] Can you see anything?
[Isabela] Nothing.
It's darker than the mole on your butt.
Whoa.
I have a mole on my butt?
-Right there.
-[slaps]
Ay!
[Chiu] Good aim, Isabela.
The practice of Chi Sau will attune
your bodies to the flow of energy
between you and your opponent.
With time, the body can sense
an opponent's strike before it comes.
Ow!
All this slapping
makes me feel like an angry old lady.
Why do we have to be blindfolded?
The muscle reflex is faster than the eye.
The muscle knows this...
but the eye does not.
[wind whistling]
[Chiu] Go.
[Isabela gasps]
[Jesus] He's good.
How does he do it?
He's angrier than we are.
[Chiu grunts]
[gasps] Sifu!
[chuckles] You've learned well, my boy.
Losing one sense,
you've gained another.
[engine thrumming]
Look what your thirst
for revenge has done, Silencio.
You handed the only home we've ever known
to the man who killed Sifu.
Hey, uh, you guys playing
who-blinks-first again?
[frequencies sweeping]
[radio host]
...next song goes out to Garabina,
the healing woman from Alejandra,
the mother of drug kingpin El Balde.
A little tune called
"Don't You Know Who I Am?"
[frequencies sweeping]
Garabina,
don't you remember me?
[camera clicks]
Don't you know who I am?
I remember you.
You came to me for help.
[young Garabina sobbing]
Por favor.
[Alejandra] Your first husband,
that good-for-nothing cobarde...
so much older than you.
You were just a helpless girl...
in a dark world of dark men.
I helped you.
Don't you owe me something, Garabina?
Don't you... know me?
[owl hooting]
[El Balde] San Simon
is totally under my control now,
Mother.
I've always wanted a place in town.
This will be my new quarters.
[Nachito] Uh... What do you want us to do
with the dead priest?
Nail him up.
It will do our new employees good
to work under the shadow
of their defeated God.
HEALER
[rooster crowing]
Don't like this.
Wait.
Something's not right.
Wait here.
They know we know kung fu, right?
It's clear.
[Jesus] Our heroes!
[Garcia sighs]
You really think this curandera
can help us stop a guy
who doesn't mind getting hit by a truck?
I don't know.
[Isabela] When I prepared
Chiu's body for burial,
he had a tattoo on his back.
It was the same marking
as the bastardo who killed him.
El Balde.
The same tattoo?
So Chiu was connected
to the attack on San Simon!
I'm telling you he was not!
I'm thinking it's high time
I touched base with the boys up north.
I see a dude's bones
snap into place on their own,
makes me feel like I wouldn't mind backup.
Besides, if something dark
and secret's happening,
you can bet the U.S. knows about it.
They can help us
get to the bottom of this.
Will they help us bring...
El Balde to justice?
How do you intend to contact them?
[phone ringing in distance]
[hinges squeak]
[ringing continues]
Where is it coming from?
[ringing]
[Brister] Shit! What's in my face?
There's something in my goddamn face!
Damn.
Woman is full of surprises.
[ringing]
Hello?
Hello? Hello?
How do you say "hello" in Spanish?
Bueno?
Hola!
[sighs] They hung up.
[dialing]
This is Special Agent Brister.
Get Larry on the line.
I never wanted this...
for you to be taking care of me.
[sighs] You never should have
jumped from my truck.
We could be somewhere far away by now,
just you and me.
We could still go.
[Larry, on phone] Mm-hm. Anything else?
Yeah.
Give my best to your wife.
Goddammit! You son of a--
He didn't believe you.
I need evidence.
Photographs...
reports, the works.
I just got to make them believe.
What's all this?
We have to get proof of what is happening
in San Simon to the authorities.
And your friend, the old woman?
Can't wait for her.
Time to fight fire
with good old American firepower.
After I convince them to come...
by taking pictures.
Where are we going?
Somewhere we can see what's going on
in San Simon, without being seen.
Our home; on a hill, burned to ash.
[door shuts]
That owl better be dead.
[muttering in Spanish]
You! Where are the police?
No police.
Vete a casa.
[groaning]
I must see the police!
Where is Officer Garcia?
[footsteps]
[El Balde] You.
[gasps]
I saw you.
You were watching me.
[gasps]
Why did my mother let you see me?
Gonna search out the best position to get
shots of the town, see what I can see.
Bueno.
Now's our chance!
If you love me, Silencio,
you'll run with me.
[whistles]
Sifu?
[grunting continues]
What have you done...
with my brother?
MARKET
The mayor and town elders
request to have a word with you, jefe.
They make requests of me?
I...
Well,
they wish to call a truce.
Nah, no truce.
[El Balde] Wait.
Bring them to the center of town.
I'll see what I can do.
Y-Yes, El Balde.
Does that thing work?
How... When...
What? W-What?
Officer Garcia,
this man says he's our father's brother.
My name is Lo.
I am only sorry that I arrived too late
to save my poor brother,
or see him one last time.
How... How did you...?
-Find you?
-[Isabela] Yes.
I would like to know that, too.
Letters.
He wrote me so many letters.
He loved you all so much.
Alas, these letters
did not survive the journey.
They were blown overboard
with my few belongings on my passage here.
Huh. What an unfortunate coincidence.
[Isabela gasps]
-Is that--
-It is.
Sifu?
My brother and I trained together,
many years ago.
Then... [groans]
Is he OK? Oh, tell me he's gonna be OK!
MARKET
[man whimpering]
Help!
Help me!
[owl hoots]
[grunting]
Shit, woman!
Shit, man!
I'm sorry, I just...
I thought I saw the...
I mean, there ain't no way, but--
But what?
The owl nailed to Garabina's door.
Have you eaten?
You're getting, you know, delirious.
[panting]
Please, El Balde!
-[microphone whines]
-Don't!
Good people...
I gather you here today to teach you
a most important new rule in my town.
You don't make requests of me.
[chuckles]
I make demands of you.
Madre de Dios. El alcalde.
"Calde"? Thought his name was Balde.
The mayor!
I don't like it. Give me the other one.
Eso.
Please!
You want to be mayor?
You can be the mayor!
I'll give you anything you want!
What does anyone want from a piñata?
I want candy.
[gasps]
[panting]
[crowd chattering]
Oh, shit.
[slurps]
Mm.
Thank you, my friends.
I feel much better now.
Chiu worked his whole life to build this.
Tell me, how did he die?
He was killed.
My brother had enemies?
Yes. I mean, I don't know.
The things we've seen lately...
[sighs] ...you would not believe.
I would not be so sure of that.
[engine revving]
Where are they going so fast?
We have to help her!
We should have told the kids!
They could have helped.
They want El Balde even worse than you.
We can handle this.
We can save Garabina and get your proof.
Just how do you plan on doing that?
[Lo] The arrows
that found my brother's heart
were tipped with poison,
and some dark magic,
and they have left a hole in my heart...
and in yours.
Such sadness,
loss.
If only there were some way
to honor his memory.
Maybe there is.
[tea bubbling]
The Bai Si tea ceremony.
I see my brother taught you well.
We're going to honor Sifu's memory
with some weak-ass tea?
This is the way to ask for a new teacher.
New teacher? I don't want--
If we're going to beat El Balde,
we need to be ready.
Lo...
will you be our new Sifu?
[grunting]
You haven't tapped into
the true extent of your strength.
You are holding back.
But Chiu said
we're supposed to find the balance.
I stopped drinking
so I can keep my mind clear.
The road of excess leads
to the palace of wisdom.
-OK, he can be our Sifu.
-[shattering]
That does not sound right.
All of you are holding back.
I cannot teach you until you commit
yourselves completely to the task.
And what is the task, Sifu?
[Lo] Don't think.
When you find an opening,
exploit it with full force.
[crowd murmuring]
ICE CREAMS AND POPSICLES
I am right, aren't I?
Tell me!
You helped my mother.
Why?
[chuckles]
I know you.
I know everything about you.
I know where you hurt.
[grunts]
Damn it!
[Garabina wheezing]
I know where Alejandra hurts, too.
I know her life is a prison.
I know she only has
one window onto the world.
Before you die, give my mother a message.
Tell her I'm coming for her eyes.
Say "cheese," motherfucker.
[Garabina grunts]
[gunshot]
Garabina!
[crowd yelling]
She's not going to make it.
Hurry, please!
I'm going to die, mi'ja.
Are you a doctor?
Say it with me: You're gonna be OK.
These are for you.
Listen to the little children.
My little saints will tell you what to do
and what you need to know.
Eat with me.
[gasps]
[Isabela sighs]
I have never been so tired in my life.
This training feels cruel.
Very good.
Tell me, did my brother's lessons
extend to the meditative arts?
Stillness is the key.
Go to the empty place in your mind.
In the empty place, everything is full.
Where am I?
There's no time.
Listen to me.
[Lo] There you are, my boy.
[overlapping voices]
-Something's not right.
-If you love me, Silencio...
-You handed the only...
-The muscle reflex is faster...
...somewhere far away by now.
[Chiu] Losing one sense,
you've gained another.
[Lo] Yes, I did.
And I know your name.
Not the millstone
you wear around your neck.
The one your mother and father gave you
when you were born.
The bad man's power
comes from his bruja madre,
whom he keeps locked in a cage of magic.
You must open the door for Alejandra
and set her free.
[gasps]
You...
can...
hear me!
[gasps]